[ext] New Getting Started tutorial (extension service worker) (#5743)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/getstarted/tut-quick-reference/index.md

---
layout: 'layouts/doc-post.njk'

> title: 'Quick API Reference'

Reviewer: I still think we should use a more descriptive name here. Afaik, title will be used in the article listings and it'd be great to be able to tell from the title what this tutorial. is about (please correct me if I'm wrong).

> title: 'Quick API Reference'

Author: I'm making the change here and also changing the rest of the Getting Started guide tutorials to match the new approach. Thanks for your suggestion 👍

> title: 'Quick API Reference'

Author: [PR#5769](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com/pull/5769)

subhead: 'Tutorial focused on teaching extension service worker concepts.'
description: 'Quickly access Chrome API reference with Omnibox.'
date: 2023-04-02
# updated: 2022-06-13
---

## Overview {: #overview }

This tutorial builds an extension that allows users to open Chrome API reference pages using the omnibox. It also provides a daily Chrome extension tip.

{% Video src="video/BhuKGJaIeLNPW9ehns59NfwqKxF2/WmVEGpEZ9ts1J0pUOzEr.mp4", width="600", height="398", autoplay="true", muted="true"%}

This article will explain how to do the following tasks in an extension service worker:

- Register a service worker and import modules.

> - Find extension service worker logs.

Author: I rewrote the list 👍

- Communicate with content scripts.

## Before you start {: #prereq }

This guide assumes that you have basic web development experience. We recommend reviewing [Extensions 101][doc-ext-101] and [Development Basics][doc-dev-basics] for an introduction to extension development.

## Build the extension {: #build }

Start by creating a new directory called `quick-api-reference` to hold the extension files, or download the source code from our [GitHub samples][github-open-api] repo.

### Step 1: Register the service worker {: #step-1 }

Create the [manifest][doc-manifest] file in the root of the project and add the following code:

{% Label %}manifest.json:{% endLabel %}

```json/8-10
{
  "manifest_version": 3,
  "name": "Open extension API reference",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "icons": {
    "16": "icon-16.png",
    "128": "icon-128.png"
  },
  "background": {
    "service_worker": "service-worker.js",
  },
}
```

Extensions register their service worker in the manifest, which only takes a single JavaScript file.
There's no need to use `navigator.serviceWorker.register()`, like you would in a web app. See
[Differences between extension and web service workers](tbd) to learn more.

> You can download the icons located on the [Github repo][github-open-api].

Author: Done 👍

### Step 2: Import multiple files {: #step-2 }

This extension has two features, so we will split the extension logic into two files. The following code declares the service worker as an [ES Module][mdn-es-module], which allows us to import multiple files:

{% Label %}manifest.json:{% endLabel %}

```json/3-3
{
 "background": {
    "service_worker": "service-worker.js",
    "type": "module"
  },
}
```

Create the `service-worker.js` file and import two modules:

```js
import './sw-omnibox.js';
import './sw-tips.js';
```

Create these files and add a console log to each one.

{% Columns %}

{% Column %}

{% Label %}sw-omnibox.js:{% endLabel %}

```js
console.log("sw-omnibox.js")
```
{% endColumn %}

{% Column %}
{% Label %}sw-tips.js:{% endLabel %}

```js
console.log("sw-tips.js")
```
{% endColumn %}

{% endColumns %}

See [Importing scripts](tbd) to learn about other ways to import multiple files in a service worker.

{% Aside %}

Remember to set `type.module` when using a modern module bundler framework.

{% endAside %}

### _Optional: Debugging the service worker_ {: #step-3 }

> Let's quickly go over how to find the service worker logs and know when it has terminated. Follow the instructions to [Load an unpacked extension][doc-dev-basics-unpacked] and wait 30 seconds for the service worker to stop. Click on the "service worker" hyperlink to inspect it. 

Author: Good suggestion! 👍

Now let's break the extension to learn where to locate errors. One way to do this is to delete the ".js" from the `'./sw-omnibox.js'` import in the `service-worker.js` file. Chrome will be unable to register the service worker.

Go back to chrome://extensions and refresh the extension. The following error will appear:

{% Video src="video/BhuKGJaIeLNPW9ehns59NfwqKxF2/AbMNDSbURLKjH1Jm1C9Q.mp4", width="400", height="477", autoplay="true", muted="true", loop="true" %}

See [Debugging extensions](tbd) for more ways debug the extension service worker.

{% Aside 'caution' %}
Don't forget to fix the file name before moving on!
{% endAside %}

### Step 4: Initialize the state {: #step-4 }

Extensions can save initial values to storage on installation. To use the [`chrome.storage`][api-storage] API, we need to request permission in the manifest:

{% Label %}manifest.json:{% endLabel %}

```json
{
  ...
  "permissions": ["storage"],
}
```

> The following code save the default suggestions to storage when the extension is first installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code save the default suggestions to storage when the extension is first installed by listening to the `onInstalled` event:
```

{% Label %}sw-omnibox.js:{% endLabel %}

```js
...
// Save default API suggestions
chrome.runtime.onInstalled.addListener(({ reason }) => {
  if (reason === 'install') {
    chrome.storage.local.set({
      apiSuggestions: ['tabs', 'storage', 'scripting']
    });
  }
});
```

Service workers do not have direct access to the [window object][mdn-window], therefore cannot use
[window.localStorage()][mdn-local-storage] to store values. Also, service workers are short-lived execution environments;
they get terminated repeatedly throughout a user's browser session, which makes it incompatible with

> global variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
global variables. Instead, we use `chrome.storage.local` which stores data on the local machine.
```

Author: Added this on a separate commit 👍

See [Saving state](TBD) to learn about storage options for extension service workers.

### Step 5: Register your events {: #step-5 }

> All event listeners need to be registered in the global scope of the service worker. In other words, event listeners should not be nested in functions. This way Chrome can immediately invoke all event handlers, even if the extension's async startup logic hasn't finished. 

Reviewer: Not sure if this is a better way to phrase this:

```suggestion
All event listeners need to be statically registered in the global scope of the service worker. In other words, event listeners should not be nested in async functions. This way Chrome can ensure that all event handlers are restored in case of a service worker reboot.
```

Maybe rephrase to:

"

To use the [`chrome.omnibox`][api-omnibox] API first add the omnibox keyword to the manifest:

{% Label %}manifest.json:{% endLabel %}

```json
{
  ...
  "minimum_chrome_version": "102",
  "omnibox": {
    "keyword": "api"
  },
}
```

{% Aside 'important' %}
The [`"minimum_chrome_version"`][manifest-min-version] explains how this key behaves when a user tries to install your extension but isn't using a compatible version of Chrome.

{% endAside %}

> The following code registers the omnibox event listeners at the top level of the script and updates [chrome.storage][api-storage] with the most recent api search.

Reviewer: The code also creates suggestions. Maybe add a bit more explanation and maybe even split up the code.

Author: Good idea. On it! 🏃🏻‍♀️💨

{% Label %}sw-omnibox.js:{% endLabel %}

```js
...
const URL_CHROME_EXTENSIONS_DOC =
  'https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/';
const NUMBER_OF_PREVIOUS_SEARCHES = 4;

// Display the suggestions after user starts typing
chrome.omnibox.onInputChanged.addListener(async (input, suggest) => {
  await chrome.omnibox.setDefaultSuggestion({
    description: 'Enter a Chrome API or choose from past searches'
  });
  const { apiSuggestions } = await chrome.storage.local.get('apiSuggestions');
  const suggestions = apiSuggestions.map((api) => {
    return { content: api, description: `Open chrome.${api} API` };
  });
  suggest(suggestions);
});

// Open the reference page of the chosen API
chrome.omnibox.onInputEntered.addListener((input) => {
  chrome.tabs.create({ url: URL_CHROME_EXTENSIONS_DOC + input });
  // Save the latest keyword
  updateHistory(input);
});

async function updateHistory(input) {
  const { apiSuggestions } = await chrome.storage.local.get('apiSuggestions');
  apiSuggestions.unshift(input);
  apiSuggestions.splice(NUMBER_OF_PREVIOUS_SEARCHES);

>   await chrome.storage.local.set({ apiSuggestions });

Reviewer: Easier way (I think):

```
const { apiSuggestions } = await chrome.storage.local.get('apiSuggestions');
apiSuggestions = input.concat(apiSuggestions);
await chrome.storage.local.set({ apiSuggestions });
```

Author: concat behaves funny 🙃
<img width="451" alt="Screenshot 2023-03-22 at 09 19 31" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/37001393/226934070-68e1ce62-ec20-4072-b456-0bd5177ce30a.png">

Reviewer: Sorry, should've been `[input].concat`. Thinking. more about this, I would ignore the number of suggestions and just go with:

```
const { apiSuggestions } = await chrome.storage.local.get('apiSuggestions');
await chrome.storage.local.set({ [input].concat(apiSuggestions) });
```

But your call :-)

Author: Okie dokies 😁

}
```

{% Aside 'important' %}

Extension service workers have access to both web APIs and Chrome APIs, with a few exceptions.
For a deep dive, see [Service Workers...](tbd) 

{% endAside %}

### Step 6: Set up a recurring event {: #step-6 }

The `setTimeout()` or `setInterval()` methods are commonly used to perform delayed or periodic
tasks. However, these APIs can fail because the scheduler will cancel the timers when the service
worker is terminated. Instead, extensions can use the [`chrome.alarms`][api-alarms] API. 

> To use the Alarms API, request the `"alarms"` permission in the manifest. The extension also needs to request [host permission][doc-host-perm] to retrieve the extension tips from the glitch site:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Alarms API, request the `"alarms"` permission in the manifest. The extension also needs to request [host permission][doc-host-perm] to be able to fetch the extension tips from a remote hosted location:
```

{% Label %}manifest.json:{% endLabel %}

```json/2/3
{
  ...
  "permissions": ["storage", "alarms"],
  "permissions": ["storage"],
  "host_permissions": ["https://extension-tips.glitch.me/*"],
}
```

> The following code sets up an alarm once a day to fetch the daily tip and save it to

Reviewer: Maybe mention that you create the alarm at install time

[`chrome.storage.local()`][api-storage]:

{% Label %}sw-tips.js:{% endLabel %}

```js
// Fetch tip & save in storage
const updateTip = async () => {
  const response = await fetch('https://extension-tips.glitch.me/tips.json');
  const tips = await response.json();
  const randomIndex = Math.floor(Math.random() * tips.length);

>   await chrome.storage.local.set({ tip: tips[randomIndex] });

Reviewer: remove the await here, but return the promise from set

Author: I'm going to go through and update the code to match the sample repo. On it! 🏃🏻‍♀️💨

};

// Create a daily alarm and retrieves the first tip when extension is installed.
chrome.runtime.onInstalled.addListener(({ reason }) => {
  if (reason === 'install') {
    chrome.alarms.create({ delayInMinutes: 1, periodInMinutes: 1440 });
    updateTip();
  }
});

// Update tip once a the day
chrome.alarms.onAlarm.addListener(updateTip);

```

{% Aside %}

All [Chrome API][doc-apis] event listeners and methods restart the service worker 30 second termination timer. See [Extension service worker lifecycle](tdb) to learn more.

{% endAside %}

### Step 7: Communicate with other contexts {: #step-7 }

> [Content scripts][doc-content] communicate with the rest of the extension through [message passing][doc-messages]. In this example, the content script will request the tip of the day from the service worker. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Content scripts][doc-content] communicate with the rest of the extension through [message passing][doc-messages]. In this example, the content script will request the tip of the day from the service worker when the user browses the Chrome extension documentation. 
```

First, declare the content script in the manifest and add the match pattern corresponding to the [Chrome API][doc-apis] reference documentation.

{% Label %}manifest.json:{% endLabel %}

```json
{
  ...
  "content_scripts": [
    {
      "matches": ["https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/*"],
      "js": ["content.js"]
    }
  ]
}

```

> Create a new content file. The following code generates a button that will open the tip popover. It also sends a message to the service worker requesting the extension tip.

Reviewer: Maybe mention that content scripts can't access storage.local.

Author: Technically, they DO have access to the storage API, but for security reasons, we are encouraged to use messages instead.

  const tipWidget = createDomElement(`
    <button class="navigation-rail__link" popovertarget="tip-popover" popovertargetaction="show" style="padding: 0; border: none; background: none;>
      <div class="navigation-rail__icon">
        <svg class="icon" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none"> 
        <path d='M15 16H9M14.5 9C14.5 7.61929 13.3807 6.5 12 6.5M6 9C6 11.2208 7.2066 13.1599 9 14.1973V18.5C9 19.8807 10.1193 21 11.5 21H12.5C13.8807 21 15 19.8807 15 18.5V14.1973C16.7934 13.1599 18 11.2208 18 9C18 5.68629 15.3137 3 12 3C8.68629 3 6 5.68629 6 9Z'"></path>
        </svg>
      </div>
      <span>Tip</span> 
    </button>
  `);

  const popover = createDomElement(
    `<div id='tip-popover' popover>${tip}</div>`
  );

  document.body.append(popover);
  nav.append(tipWidget);
})();

function createDomElement(html) {
  const dom = new DOMParser().parseFromString(html, 'text/html');
  return dom.body.firstElementChild;
}
```

{% Details %}
{% DetailsSummary %}
💡 **Interesting JavaScript used in this code**
{% endDetailsSummary %}

TBD

- DomParser
- Popover API
- SVG element

{% endDetails %}

> The following code sends the daily tip from the service worker to the content script. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final step is to add a message handler to our service worker that replies the daily tip when requested from the content script. 
```

---
layout: 'layouts/doc-post.njk'
title: 'Handle events with service workers'
seoTitle: 'Chrome extension service worker tutorial.'
subhead: 'Tutorial that covers extension service worker concepts'
description: 'Learn how to create and debug an extension service worker.'
date: 2023-04-02
# updated: 2022-06-13
---

> ## Overview {: #overview }

Author: Done! 👍 Also made the video larger

{% endAside %}

### _Optional: Debugging the service worker_ {: #step-3 }

Let's quickly go over how to find the service worker logs and know when it has terminated. First, follow the instructions to [Load an unpacked extension][doc-dev-basics-unpacked]. 

After 30 seconds you will see "service worker(inactive)" which means the service worker has terminated. Click on the "service worker(inactive)" hyperlink to inspect it. See example below.

{% Video src="video/BhuKGJaIeLNPW9ehns59NfwqKxF2/D1XRaA6q4xn9Ylwe1u1N.mp4", width="800", height="314", autoplay="true", muted="true", loop="true" %}

Did you notice that inspecting the service worker woke it up? That's right! Opening the service worker in the devtools will keep it active. To make sure that your extension behaves correctly when your service worker is terminated, remember to close the DevTools.

Now let's break the extension to learn where to locate errors. One way to do this is to delete the ".js" from the `'./sw-omnibox.js'` import in the `service-worker.js` file. Chrome will be unable to register the service worker.

> Go back to chrome://extensions and refresh the extension. The following error will appear:

Author: Good idea... forgot about that! 😅 Thanks for pointing it out 👍

{% Video src="video/BhuKGJaIeLNPW9ehns59NfwqKxF2/AbMNDSbURLKjH1Jm1C9Q.mp4", width="400", height="477", autoplay="true", muted="true", loop="true" %}

See [Debugging extensions](tbd) for more ways debug the extension service worker.

{% Aside 'caution' %}
Don't forget to fix the file name before moving on!
{% endAside %}

### Step 4: Initialize the state {: #step-4 }

> Extensions can save initial values to storage. To use the [`chrome.storage`][api-storage] API, we need to request permission in the manifest:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chrome will shut down service workers if they are not needed. We use the [`chrome.storage`][api-storage] API to persist state across service worker sessions. For storage access, we need to request permission in the manifest:
```
I like to give a tiny bit of the why when starting a new step in a tutorial - wdyt?

Author: Sounds good :)

{% Label %}manifest.json:{% endLabel %}

```json
{
  ...
  "permissions": ["storage"],
}
```

First, let's save the default suggestions to storage. We can initialize state when the extension is first installed by listening to the [`runtime.onInstalled()`][runtime-oninstalled] event:

{% Label %}sw-omnibox.js:{% endLabel %}

```js
...
// Save default API suggestions
chrome.runtime.onInstalled.addListener(({ reason }) => {
  if (reason === 'install') {
    chrome.storage.local.set({
      apiSuggestions: ['tabs', 'storage', 'scripting']
    });
  }
});
```

Service workers do not have direct access to the [window object][mdn-window], therefore cannot use
[window.localStorage()][mdn-local-storage] to store values. Also, service workers are short-lived execution environments;
they get terminated repeatedly throughout a user's browser session, which makes it incompatible with

> global variables.  Instead, we use [`chrome.storage.local`](tbd) which stores data on the local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
global variables.  Instead, we use [`chrome.storage.local`](/docs/extensions/reference/storage/#property-local) which stores data on the local machine.
```

Author: 👍 I added this to a fix links batch

See [Saving state](TBD) to learn about other storage options for extension service workers.

### Step 5: Register your events {: #step-5 }

All event listeners need to be statically registered in the global scope of the service worker. In other words, event listeners should not be nested in async functions. This way Chrome can ensure that all event handlers are restored in case of a service worker reboot.

In this example, we are going to use the [`chrome.omnibox`][api-omnibox] API, but first we must add the omnibox keyword to the manifest:

{% Label %}manifest.json:{% endLabel %}

```json
{
  ...
  "minimum_chrome_version": "102",
  "omnibox": {
    "keyword": "api"
  },
}
```

{% Aside 'important' %}
The [`"minimum_chrome_version"`][manifest-min-version] explains how this key behaves when a user tries to install your extension but isn't using a compatible version of Chrome. 

{% endAside %}

Now let's register the omnibox event listeners at the top level of the script. The

> [`onInputChanged()`](tbd) takes the current user input and a [suggestResult][omnibox-suggest]

Reviewer: Have we already got these links?

Author: Fixed 👍

object. The keywords in storage will populate the suggestions. When user enters the omnibox keyword
(api) in the address bar followed by tab or space, Chrome will display a list of suggestions.

> Now, let's register the omnibox event listeners at the top level of the script. When the user enters the omnibox keyword "api" in the address bar followed by tab or space, Chrome will display a list of suggestions based on the keywords in storage. The [onInputChanged()][omnibox-input-changed] event, which takes the current user input and a suggestResult object, is responsible for populating these suggestions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's register the omnibox event listeners at the top level of the script. When the user enters the omnibox keyword `api` in the address bar followed by tab or space, Chrome will display a list of suggestions based on the keywords in storage. The [onInputChanged()][omnibox-input-changed] event, which takes the current user input and a suggestResult object, is responsible for populating these suggestions.
```

  chrome.tabs.create({ url: URL_CHROME_EXTENSIONS_DOC + input });
  // Save the latest keyword
  updateHistory(input);
});
```

The `updateHistory()` function below takes the omnibox input and saves it to [storage.local][api-storage]. This way the most recent search term can be used later as an omnibox suggestion.

{% Label %}sw-omnibox.js:{% endLabel %}

```js
...
async function updateHistory(input) {
  const { apiSuggestions } = await chrome.storage.local.get('apiSuggestions');
  apiSuggestions.unshift(input);
  apiSuggestions.splice(NUMBER_OF_PREVIOUS_SEARCHES);
  return chrome.storage.local.set({ apiSuggestions });
}
```

{% Aside 'important' %}

Extension service workers can use both web APIs and Chrome APIs, with a few exceptions. For more information, see [Service Workers events](tbd).

{% endAside %}

### Step 6: Set up a recurring event {: #step-6 }

The `setTimeout()` or `setInterval()` methods are commonly used to perform delayed or periodic
tasks. However, these APIs can fail because the scheduler will cancel the timers when the service
worker is terminated. Instead, extensions can use the [`chrome.alarms`][api-alarms] API. 

> Start by requesting the `"alarms"` permission in the manifest. Additionally, to fetch the extension tips from a remote hosted location, you need to request [host permission][doc-host-perm]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by requesting the `alarms` permission in the manifest. Additionally, to fetch the extension tips from a remote hosted location, you need to request [host permission][doc-host-perm]:
```

Author: This is the convention we've been following for permissions and manifest keys

{% Label %}manifest.json:{% endLabel %}

```json/2/3
{
  ...
  "permissions": ["storage", "alarms"],
  "permissions": ["storage"],
  "host_permissions": ["https://extension-tips.glitch.me/*"],
}
```

> The extension will fetch all the tips and pick one at random. Then save it to storage. We will create an alarm that will be triggered once a day. Alarms are not saved when you close Chrome. So we need to check if the alarm exists and create it if it doesn't.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The extension will fetch all the tips, pick one at random and save it to storage. We will create an alarm that will be triggered once a day to update the tip. Alarms are not saved when you close Chrome. So we need to check if the alarm exists and create it if it doesn't.
```

{% Label %}sw-tips.js:{% endLabel %}

```js
// Fetch tip & save in storage
const updateTip = async () => {
  const response = await fetch('https://extension-tips.glitch.me/tips.json');
  const tips = await response.json();
  const randomIndex = Math.floor(Math.random() * tips.length);
  return chrome.storage.local.set({ tip: tips[randomIndex] });
};

const ALARM_NAME = 'tip';

// Check if alarm exists to avoid resetting the timer.
// The alarm might be removed when the browser session restarts.
async function createAlarm() {
  const alarm = await chrome.alarms.get(ALARM_NAME);
  if (typeof alarm === 'undefined') {
    chrome.alarms.create(ALARM_NAME, {
      delayInMinutes: 1,
      periodInMinutes: 1440
    });
    updateTip();
  }
}

createAlarm();

// Update tip once a the day
chrome.alarms.onAlarm.addListener(updateTip);
```

{% Aside 'important' %}

All [Chrome API][doc-apis] event listeners and methods restart the service worker's 30 second termination timer. For more information, see the [Extension service worker lifecycle](tdb).

{% endAside %}

### Step 7: Communicate with other contexts {: #step-7 }

> Extensions use [content scripts][doc-content] to read and modify the content of the page. When a user visits a Chrome API reference page, the extension's content script will [send a message][doc-messages] to request the tip of the day from the service worker. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extensions use [content scripts][doc-content] to read and modify the content of the page. When a user visits a Chrome API reference page, the extension's content script will update the page with the tip of the day. It [sends a message][doc-messages] to request the tip of the day from the service worker. 
```

Start by declaring the content script in the manifest and add the match pattern corresponding to the [Chrome API][doc-apis] reference documentation.

{% Label %}manifest.json:{% endLabel %}

```json
{
  ...
  "content_scripts": [
    {
      "matches": ["https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/*"],
      "js": ["content.js"]
    }
  ]
}

```

Create a new content file. The following code sends a message to the service worker requesting the tip. Then, adds a button that will open a popover containing the extension tip. This code uses the new web platform [Popover API][popover-chrome-status] (see the [HTML spec][popover-html-spec] for more details). 

{% Label %}content.js:{% endLabel %}

```js
(async () => {
  // Sends a message to the service worker and receives a tip in response

>   const { tip } = await chrome.runtime.sendMessage({ greeting: 'tip' });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const { tip } = await chrome.runtime.sendMessage({ type: 'tip' });
```

Author: Thanks for this suggestion.  Since we already merged the sample code, I'd rather leave this as is for now. If we find a critical change to the source code, I will add this to the list.

      <div class="navigation-rail__icon">
        <svg class="icon" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none"> 
        <path d='M15 16H9M14.5 9C14.5 7.61929 13.3807 6.5 12 6.5M6 9C6 11.2208 7.2066 13.1599 9 14.1973V18.5C9 19.8807 10.1193 21 11.5 21H12.5C13.8807 21 15 19.8807 15 18.5V14.1973C16.7934 13.1599 18 11.2208 18 9C18 5.68629 15.3137 3 12 3C8.68629 3 6 5.68629 6 9Z'"></path>
        </svg>
      </div>
      <span>Tip</span> 
    </button>
  `);

  const popover = createDomElement(
    `<div id='tip-popover' popover>${tip}</div>`
  );

  document.body.append(popover);
  nav.append(tipWidget);
})();

function createDomElement(html) {
  const dom = new DOMParser().parseFromString(html, 'text/html');
  return dom.body.firstElementChild;
}
```

The final step is to add a message handler to our service worker that sends a reply to the content script with the daily tip. 

{% Label %}sw-api.js:{% endLabel %}

```js
...
// Send tip to content script via messaging
chrome.runtime.onMessage.addListener((message, sender, sendResponse) => {

>   if (message.greeting === 'tip') {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  if (message.type === 'tip') {
```

1. Enable the "Experimental Web Platform features" flag.
1. Restart the browser

It is enabled by default in Chrome Canary for local testing.

{% endDetails %}

## 🎯 Potential enhancements {: #challenge }

Based on what you’ve learned today, try to accomplish any of the following:

- Explore another way to implement the omnibox suggestions.
- Create your own custom modal for displaying the extension tip.
- Open an additional page to the MDN's Web Extensions reference API pages.

## Keep building! {: #continue }

Congratulations on finishing this tutorial 🎉. Continue leveling up your skills by completing other
tutorials on this series:

| Extension                        | What you will learn                                            |
|----------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Reading time][tut-reading-time] | To insert an element on a specific set of pages automatically. |
| [Tabs Manager][tut-tabs-manager] | To create a popup that manages browser tabs.                   |

## Continue exploring

To continue your extension service worker learning path, we recommend exploring the following articles:

> - TBD

Reviewer: Have you already got a list of articles to link to here?

Author: I was hoping to link to some Service worker "How-to's" or the explainer, but that is only one approach. 

We could also simply link our to general development articles. I'm open to suggestions.

### Step 2: Import multiple service worker modules {: #step-2 }

Our service worker implements two features. For better maintainability, we will implement each feature in a separate module. First, we need to declare the service worker as an [ES Module][mdn-es-module] in our manifest, which allows us to import modules in our service worker:

{% Label %}manifest.json:{% endLabel %}

```json/3-3
{
 "background": {
    "service_worker": "service-worker.js",
    "type": "module"
  },
}
```

Create the `service-worker.js` file and import two modules:

```js
import './sw-omnibox.js';
import './sw-tips.js';
```

Create these files and add a console log to each one.

{% Columns %}

{% Column %}

{% Label %}sw-omnibox.js:{% endLabel %}

```js
console.log("sw-omnibox.js")
```
{% endColumn %}

{% Column %}
{% Label %}sw-tips.js:{% endLabel %}

```js
console.log("sw-tips.js")
```
{% endColumn %}

{% endColumns %}

See [Importing scripts](tbd) to learn about other ways to import multiple files in a service worker.

{% Aside 'important' %}

Remember to set `type.module` when using a modern module bundler framework, such as [CRXjs Vite plugin][crxjs-vite].

{% endAside %}

> ### _Optional: Debugging the service worker_ {: #step-3 }

Reviewer 2: We don't use emphasis like this typically.
